---
title: Solid
---

- [Up to Software](software)

# Solid

The Solid protocol is something that I\'ve been interested in for a few
years and have a \"pod\" kicking around. For my personal use I\'m
somewhat working my way up to adopting it - it is built on top of a
foundation of relatively complex technologies which make perfect sense
given the purpose of the project within the universal context of the
web\...but my local needs are much smaller and I have the skillset to
start with more direct and simple approaches. This is a similar concern
to some of the related Linked Data efforts in that I\'m drawn to it but
there\'s a lot to unpack and a lot of dots to connect to realize the net
value.

Professionally I\'ve become increasingly aware of the promise of this
model given the heighted sensitivity around privacy and the relatively
fundamental proposition that defining mechanisms by you are able to
apply value to user-owned data avoids a large number of traps and
provides a somewhat natural mechanism for \"decoupling\" of service
providers.

I'm also somewhat unsure of how much inertia the project carries - it
is certainly likely to not get a lot of help from the large players that
benefit from controlling data silos and some of the projects seem dated
and/or stale. It certainly has some prominent names attached and seems
to at least get some periodic
[mentions](https://cacm.acm.org/opinion/toward-a-solid-acceptance-of-the-decentralized-web-of-personal-data-societal-and-technological-convergence/ "Toward a Solid Acceptance of the Decentralized Web of Personal Data: Societal and Technological Convergence – Communications of the ACM"){atime="2024-06-13"}
but while the model is conceptually very appealing and seemingly aligned
with an active zeitgeist there may also be a long route for something
pragmatic to materialize and that incarnation may be markedly different.
It has also very recently resurfaced in support of EU efforts for
[digital wallets](https://thenextweb.com/news/eu-digital-id-supports-universal-digital-wallet "Europe opened a door to a universal wallet. The web’s inventor wants to enter"){atime="2024-09-12"}.

I'll certainly continue to explore it with a mix of optimism and the
recognition that the Semantic Web still feels largely unrealized (or
perhaps seemingly just recreated repeatedly in smaller less mature forms
but that\'s still a cause to be wary).

